we're designing spaces the show that's
all about you and your space your home
and surroundings I'm Debi Marie
today is home improvement goes high-tech
here on designing spaces we've got a
collection of topics where technology
makes your home more comfortable and
up-to-date from the smart home to the
sublime we'll show you some home
improvements that will put your
household on a technological edge so
stick around and see it all right here
on designing spaces
what do you do if there's a power
failure well usually you just wait it
out but what if the power is gone for
days or even weeks because of forces
beyond your control
storms and other causes can create a
serious problem for home and business
and there is one big home improvement
that will not leave you in the dark take
a look
when there's a power outage there's a
lot at stake
for a small business it could translate
into thousands of dollars of lost
revenue for a home its lost peace of
mind and security with so much at risk a
backup solution is needed designing
spaces wanted to get some answers so we
met up with Bob Kinsey a communist
generator dealer in Bethesda Maryland
where extended power outages are common
to take a closer look at residential
standby generators a backup power
generator does exactly what the name
implies when the utility power goes off
and your house goes dark it
automatically senses that the power's
off starts up and restores powers to
those circuits that we have hooked up to
it when the power comes back on
from the utility it automatically senses
that and turns itself off to learn more
about the generators themselves we spoke
with Frank Asaro a distributor for
Cummins a leading manufacturer since the
1920s first off why is it so quiet you
can see it's got an outer shell it's got
an inner shell so it's two enclosures in
one obviously like we talked about
that's a very important consideration
being quiet okay
how does this work basically this
particular generator is powered by
natural gas the line coming in the fuel
source comes up here the fuel powers the
engine the engine kicks over in this
alternator in what the alternator is is
basically it's a rotor and a stator the
rotor runs around the stator that's what
produces the power how is it controlled
well here's your controls okay all your
sense of electronics are here this is
the brains of the operation right here
so how does the engine start we have the
fuel source but you also need an energy
source that energy source is the battery
12 volts feeding into that gives it to
spark okay that starts the engine I know
where you go there are many different
makes and models of standby generators
on the market basic online research will
reveal you get what you pay for some of
the key factors when selecting a
generator are reliability durability and
serviceability as far as reliability you
research the company you're dealing with
how long have they been in business how
long they been in the generator business
and then you want to look at the product
you want to look under the hood if you
will you know how large is the engine
the alternator and how easy are the
controls to work with how fuel-efficient
is the unit and then the major
consideration how quiet is the generator
as far as serviceability even though
this is a hands-off automatic system you
do need to maintain the unit their
service intervals do need to be
performed just like your car at Cummins
we have a service network second to none
and Cummins is a engineering company
first not a marketing company so if you
look under the hood of a Cummins unit
you're going to see quality as far as
the different sizes of generators
available the coming zone in line runs
from a 13 kW up to a 100 kW the 13 into
20 kW sizes are air-cooled and run at
3,600 rpm we also have a 20 kW that runs
at 1800 rpm water-cooled and those sizes
run up to a 100 kW this particular unit
is a 20 kW unit our most popular cell
this is the most fuel-efficient unit on
the market today
as the most quiet the power this
particular generator produces is closest
to your utility power
as you can get it's very clean very
precise power
this homeowner selected their generator
a Cummins Onan rs.20 a one important
decision was deciding where to install
it there are two predominant influences
when making that decision
the first is zoning laws and the second
is the integration with their
landscaping and architecture and the
impact it will have on neighbors back
inside the house Bob describes many of
the features on the control panel
Kathleen Asst as I told you before we
have an automatic transfer switch it
also has an exerciser clock we set it to
exercise once a week without load it
also has a battery charger to keep the
battery charged this is a remote control
panel unique to Onan it tells you when
it needs service if there was a fault
and what was the cause of it Bob what do
we need to do for preventative meet
when the generator doesn't work is
generally because somebody didn't do
preventive maintenance you must have the
oil level check you must change the oil
at least once a year the air filters the
oil filter the water in the battery but
it's very important that you do the
preventive maintenance for the homeowner
this will hopefully put it in to a
common problem in the neighborhood I run
my business out of the house and so it's
a necessity for us to have power we did
our research my husband's an architect
and we looked into a lot of different
options and this turned out to be the
best one for us
visit Cummins Onan dot-com and click on
the residential section to learn more
about standby generators for home and
small businesses
we are out of time for today but thanks
for joining me here on designing spaces
it's the show that's all about you your
living spaces and your lifestyle I'm
Debi Marie we'll see you next time
the Weisse you can visit these websites
to learn more about the participants on
this edition of designing spaces